# 2025-10-09

We [***continue***](https://github.com/AncientGuy/PKM/tree/main/journal/2025-10-05.md) to build out Projects, completely RETHINKING P.A.R.A. structured PKE workflows ... by continuing [[2015-10-09]] yesteday's examination of the [**nomadic portfolio lifestyle**, including side-hustles, the gig economy, startups and co-founders, awareness of the funding and acquhire issues as well as navigation of the project talent aquistion landscape](https://ancientguy.github.io/PKM/2.Areas/12PortfolioLifestyle.html). 

What does this mean for the PKM/PKE system? The SYSTEM is a time management and productivity system, with a focus on intelligence gathering by building in public for accountability from the outside world and a 360 degree feedback loop.  The SYSTEM represents an attempt to manage the complexity of multiple projects and multiple ventures, with a focus on intelligence gathering. The REASON that we build in public, participate in open source communities, and similar activities is ALL about intelligence gathering for INVESTING in projects that have the capacity to scale and return 500X or 1000X returns over the next decade or two. 

We build in public to stir things up, to find disagreements, to interact with users, to ATTRACT intelligence ... intelligence gathering is a key strategy FIND those who are better at doing what we're doing than we are, well over 10X better in every dimension. We want to have hands-on competence in order to flush out the entities that are 100X or ideally even 10,000X better ... we're building MVP prototypes in order to hunt for superior investment opportunities -- building a competitive MVP prototypes allows us to understand the finer points why those entities are so much better.

This is a distinctive difference that bears repeating and reiteration. The big reason for building working ventures in public is not exactly the venture or the open source technology/community itself, but the KEY to our intelligencee gathering strategy is a modicum of competence -- we need to be serious about that stuff in order to learn.  In the larger reality, the **point of competitively building out ventures is the kind of intelligence gathering that is only possible if one** ***is in the game*** ... participation is necessary to understand the competitiors well enough to either beat them OR, most likely, to join them and invest in their success. 

This is ABSOLUTELY NOT about understanding technologies or technical industry trends or even management priniciples -- it's about understanding the FULL LEADERSHIP philosophy and the potential for continued growth by the leaders and their crew behind successful technologies and winning projects ... it's about understanding the leadership of Jen-Hsun Huang [and Charles Liang Chien-Hou, Morris Chang Chung-mou and others in the circle of leaders from Taiwan] and Elon Musk [and the kind of entrepreneus he associates with, such as Peter Thiel, Alex Karp and Palmer Luckey] and taking lessons from their lives ... RATHER than understanding GPUs or AI hardware OR space exploration or even something like the need to return X to its roots.