# The purpose-driven view of knowledge management

Stronger men are better are the ones who are better at letting go of things! 💪 If we want to be a lot stronger, wee know that [don't try to do God's job](https://gemini.google.com/share/3f44b3417898) ... whenever we don't do that, it's just to easy for us to be manipulated.  It's complicated ... but strength is sort of about humility and the realization that discipline and focus matter AND that humans do not control much at all. Mostly it's about not being coldly rational and refusing to be delusional or to believe in superstitions. 

Prioritization isn't just about ROI, but about alignment with a higher purpose, the discipline of practicing humility, and developing [knowledge resources and platforms to serve others](https://github.com/AncientGuy/PKM/blob/main/journal/2025-10-22.md). Success is measured not in material output, but in long-term impact on growth and faithfulness.

This is not exactly about adding categorgies, we probably should develop our categories such as [Christian Spiritual Health](https://ancientguy.github.io/1.html) that are less about answers and more about contemplation. This is really about improving future algorithms and consideration of philosophical and spiritual matter, perhaps focusing on removal of bad habits and improvement by reduction.

This brings up things like proven history of AA and generally successful recovery programs for all kinds of things, including programs that help people on a fasting journey or about re-establishing restraint and self-control.  Recovery is not just drugs and addicts in the gutter, but substances like junk food and other things that people are addicted to ... there IS a life altering movement that has changed people lives. After all it's [what Tom Hanks would make a historical epic about 12 step programs](https://youtube.com/shorts/3_9a11J4RZs).